## Meeting #45 - 2023-12-13

-   **Duration:**  52m
-   **Chair:**  Alexei
-   **Participants: **
    -   Dan Brown
    -   Joe Stringer
    -   Brendan Gregg
    -   Daniel Borkmann
    -   Alan Jowett
    -   KP Singh
    -   Alexei Starovoitov
    -   Mike Dolan
    -   Andrii Nakryiko
-   **Notes:**
    -   Reviewing latest charter proposal from GB
        -   Discussion of 2023-08-09 expectations around BSC responsibilities
        -   Clarified that BSC will fulfill the roles described in the new section 4.
        -   Action item for BSC: Review & provide input to proposal doc for remaining items:
            -   [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sFBTqXxwR9RN3QoplhE54sOD29h3BKjPOnsMsugui8k/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1sFBTqXxwR9RN3QoplhE54sOD29h3BKjPOnsMsugui8k/edit)
    -   Project lifecycle:
        -   How to manage expectations around the level of endorsement from BPF foundation membership - sandbox vs. core etc.
        -   Mike Dolan: The website doesn't have this project progression policy currently. Need to resolve the differences.
    -   Status of outstanding proposals for projects to join:
        -   BTFHub, libbpf-go proposals are blocked on legal notice
        -   Brendan to follow up with where we got to most recently on legal notice and forward to Mike to unblock next steps.
    -   How can BSC better communicate with GB?
        -   Per 2023-10-18 discussion, KP volunteered to be primary contact currently.
        -   How does BSC understand when GB meetings are occurring?
            -   Dan volunteered to follow up with Sridhar to ensure BSC gets visibility into meeting times.
        -   How many BSC members can attend GB meetings?
            -   Intention is  _at least_  one member joins, per charter.
            -   Mike: For the charter discussions, it may help to have additional members.
        -   What is the intended way for BSC to understand the discussions during GB meetings?
            -   BSC representative to attend GB meeting and relay summary to BSC during following BSC meeting.
    -   Directed funding requests
        -   Daniel: Interested in a proposal for funding specific LLVM work.
            -   Related: Discussions with academia during LPC, interested in exploring options to help push that forward.
        -   Dan: We can set up a shared list with GB + BSC to facilitate these discussions.
    -   Security talk @ kubecon EU: submitted, awaiting CFP response
    -   LSFMM dates confirmed for May 13-15, 2024:  [https://events.linuxfoundation.org/lsfmmbpf/](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/lsfmmbpf/)
        -   Budget submission proposed to LF for sponsorship.

## Meeting #44 - 2023-11-29

-   **Duration:**
-   **Chair: Joe Stringer**
-   **Participants: **
    -   Dan Brown
    -   Joe Stringer
    -   Brendan Gregg
    -   Daniel Borkmann
    -   Alan Jowett
-   **Notes:**
    -   No quorum
    -   Brainstorming eBPF security messaging
        -   CFP for Kubecon co-located Cilium + eBPF day as a forcing function to start developing threat modeling / security messaging for eBPF community
        -   We should write the slides anyway, we'll want the content for other conferences or for preparing marketing messaging / text.
        -   Dan mentioned there is a budget line item submission for 2024 funding to help prepare material for security messaging. BSC can help draft the core content and we could look to have additional help to finalize format / text.
        -   [Brainstorm link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IQWdGFIzqebatIMdNIZuzlfsXTkYlSiI0A57WPBxsuE/edit)
    -   eBPF on Windows status
        -   Signing
        -   JIT vs HVCI
        -   Porting tools to Windows

## Meeting #43 - 2023-10-18

-   **Duration:**
-   **Chair: KP Singh**
-   **Participants: **
    -   Dan Brown
    -   Joe Stringer
    -   KP Singh
    -   Alexei Starovoitov
    -   Brendan Gregg
    -   Daniel Borkmann
    -   Dave Thaler
    -   (regrets from Andrii)
-   **Notes:**
    -   Status on proposal to board
        -   BSC previously reviewed Mike's proposal.
        -   Understand that there was no quorum from GB during 2023-10-17 session.
    -   Any result of board vote on election?
        -   No, there was no quorum
    -   IETF
        -   Dave would like to propose an additional editor for RFCs for someone with rights in the Linux kernel, to share the responsibilities.
        -   Call for a working group to adopt a draft: Feedback date has passed. Awaiting bpf working group chair confirmations in IETF tooling.
        -   Call for agenda open since Oct 9
        -   Topic (Alexei): Memory model - send to WG chairs
        -   BPF working session 09:30 - 11:30 Prague time Monday 6th
    -   Dave plans to step down from BSC at the end of the LPC week November 17th and has nominated Alan Jowett. Alexei seconds. KP thirds. All present agree provided the new process is ratified by the board. This shows the BSCs commitment to continuity and faith in the proposed process.
    -   Linux Plumbers Conference
        -   Schedule forming up:  [https://lpc.events/event/17/sessions/155/#20231113](https://lpc.events/event/17/sessions/155/#20231113)
        -   Considering to split BPF out from networking in 2024
        -   38 talks (packed schedule)
        -   Foundation has allocated all (but one in person) the passes to various speakers
    -   LSF/MM/BPF contract is being negotiated for SLC
        -   Targeting May 13-15 2024
    -   BSC chair to represent at upcoming GB meetings
        -   Next Nov session has LPC conflict, during the morning conference sessions.
        -   Dan offered to bring up the conflict for scheduling that session

## Meeting #42 - 2023-08-23

- **Duration:**
- **Chair: Daniel Borkmann**
- **Participants:**
  - **Andrii Nakryiko**
  - **Brendan Gregg**
  - **Joe Stringer**
  - **KP Singh**
  - **Dave Thaler**
  - **Dan Brown**
- **Notes:**
  - Kumar asked if eBPF foundation could help sponsor travel to LPC
    - [https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/bpf/bpf-next.git/log/?qt=author&q=Kumar+Kartikeya+Dwivedi](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/bpf/bpf-next.git/log/?qt=author&q=Kumar+Kartikeya+Dwivedi)
    - General requirements from BSC side for travel sponsorship:
      - Active contributor to eBPF ecosystem (not limited to just kernel BPF side, but could be other major projects/infrastructure as well)
      - Intention to submit a CFP for discussion session
        - (Intention given visa application needs to be submitted earlier before a person knows of the session being accepted)
    - Process: Someone directly involved in the same project or knowing them prepares a budget proposal.
    - With regards to Kumar assuming the intention to submit a proposal, BSC has no objections and would give recommendation to fund his travel to GB. (Alexei voted yes via email)
      - **AI: KP to check with Kumar and to reach out to GB. Kumar could get one of the two free sponsor passes from eBPF foundation assigned so that he can apply for a visa in time (given this process takes longer).**
  - Request for BSC's official position on:

A large company providing eBPF-based solutions at scale reached out to us as BSC asking if Fortune 500-type companies will be okay with us loading several eBPF programs on their servers. We are curious about what the eBPF community thinks about it.

We chatted with KP Singh from Google and with a few kernel developer from Red Hat and we got contrasting opinions: KP seemed to believe eBPF program signature and verification would be happening soon while Red Hat engineers believed it would not for years and told us they were currently focusing on securing eBPF program distribution and loading (with bpfd). In fact their product management is trying to push/mandate bpfd adoption from the Red Hat side.

We are very curious what you think (and if you had any feedback for large companies on this topic).

- Related: [https://next.redhat.com/2023/07/18/using-ebpf-in-unprivileged-pods/](https://next.redhat.com/2023/07/18/using-ebpf-in-unprivileged-pods/)

- Mailing list pointers from past discussion on topic of bpfd:

  - Meta: [https://lore.kernel.org/bpf/CAEf4BzZKFPDjaXXxSxUQH3-Z\_d6oAXdXa1zgq65Tuf\_sDttVdg@mail.gmail.com/](https://lore.kernel.org/bpf/CAEf4BzZKFPDjaXXxSxUQH3-Z_d6oAXdXa1zgq65Tuf_sDttVdg@mail.gmail.com/)
  - Google: [https://lore.kernel.org/bpf/CA+khW7h95RpurRL8qmKdSJQEXNYuqSWnP16o-uRZ9G0KqCfM4Q@mail.gmail.com/](https://lore.kernel.org/bpf/CA+khW7h95RpurRL8qmKdSJQEXNYuqSWnP16o-uRZ9G0KqCfM4Q@mail.gmail.com/)
  - Cilium: [https://lore.kernel.org/bpf/2a9eb424-e767-d76e-df92-5cadd858ead5@iogearbox.net/](https://lore.kernel.org/bpf/2a9eb424-e767-d76e-df92-5cadd858ead5@iogearbox.net/)

- BSC discussion:

  - **[AI: Daniel, Joe: getting back to the company with BSC position] (done)**
  - There are already at least 4 projects in the overall space of deploying bpf programs: L3AF, bpfd, bumblebee, and Inspektor Gadget.  They have differing but partially overlapping tradeoffs, dependencies, and use cases. bpfd is one project from one vendor, other vendors might have different mechanisms as there is no standard.
  - BSC not looking to rubber-stamp one approach to BPF program deployment also as there is no one-size fits all approach
  - Kernel side needs to ensure that there are enough mechanisms to suit the various needs / use-cases
  - There are various models for deploying programs
    - Userspace + BPF program(s) go together, tightly integrated
    - BPF programs are separately managed by a logically central tool
  - There are various mechanisms
    - capabilities, token, signing, lsms, etc
  - Discussion of "npm-style" questions / issues: Are the programs being installed from a legitimate source? Secure supply-chain.
  - One possible answer: BPF has been designed to be a safe secure sandbox, but people can still write illogical high-overhead and therefore harmful programs with it. As they can with any language.
  - Alexei (via email): My position is similar to KP's which is: redhat's bpfd or any other daemon based arbitration is not flexible enough to be a generic loader solution for all types of bpf progs.

- Misc items:

  - Follow-up on "Proposal to create a BSC slack channel, need full BSC to weigh in on whether slack or something else":
    - If everyone is okay, I can create a Whatsapp group for BSC folks. BSC said yes. **[AI: Daniel, Dave wanted to send his number] (done)**
  - eBPF Foundation Mentorship program
    - **[AI Daniel] Checking with Sridhar on process related to BSC (done)**
    - **[AI all] Review the mentorship doc which was sent via email**
    - **Answer on process:**

      - The process would be:

      - 1. This CFP (with dates) will be made public - This will also go under announcements in the website.

      - 2. Once we receive proposals, it will be brought to BSC for selection and/or approval. BSC will consider availability of the mentor(s) as one of the criteria while selecting/approving.

      - 3. Once BSC approves the project, it will be add to the LF-Mentorship Program.

      - 4. The program will be activated and will be open for potential interns to apply.

      - 5. We will again circulate this LF mentorship program widely.

      - 6. The mentors will select the interns.

      - 7. Once the interns are finalized The program will start - Request will be made to mentors to regularly update BSC on the progress.

  - 2 sponsor passes for LPC are needed for speakers
    - One potentially for Kumar
  - Refilling Lorenz' position?
    - One suggestion was that we could bring Lorenz back.
    - Currently nobody feels strongly about the need for backfill.
  - Informational:
    - eBPF Summit (Sep 13) schedule out: [https://ebpf.io/summit-2023-schedule/](https://ebpf.io/summit-2023-schedule/)
    - LSF/MM/BPF currently figuring out location logistics, should have more info in September
    - LPC (Nov 13-16) CFP is still open until Sept 27, we're looking for more submissions for eBPF & net track: [https://lpc.events/](https://lpc.events/)

## Meeting #41 - 2023-08-09

- **Duration:**
- **Chair: Dave Thaler**
- **Participants:**
  - **Dan Brown**
  - **Joe Stringer**
  - **Brendan Gregg**
  - **Dave Thaler**
- **Notes**
  - No quorum
  - Dave reported to the GB that BSC is continuing governance discussion.
  - BSC focus areas
    - We started with a charter BSC scope populated from similar wording in other foundations
    - Reviewed/discussed/iterated on Brendan's wip proposal
  - Highlighting projects
    - How to remove entries from landscape projects for inactivity / defunct project
    - Proposal: Even for emerging projects, require active maintenance
    - Filed [Require "Emerging" projects to be actively maintained · Issue #463 · ebpf-io/ebpf.io-website (github.com)](https://github.com/ebpf-io/ebpf.io-website/issues/463)
  - Proposal to create a BSC slack channel, need full BSC to weigh in on whether slack or something else
    - BSC members should weigh in with what chat systems they are allowed to use.
    - _This list was not discussed during the meeting and does not need to be in the minutes:_

      - Joe: Prefer Slack, no restriction

      - Brendan: Prefer Slack, no restriction

      - Dave: no preference, no restriction

      - Alexei: Prefer Whatsapp or Signal

      - Dan: Prefer Slack or Whatsapp, no restriction

      - KP:

      - Daniel: Prefer Slack or Whatsapp, no restriction

- **Drafts**
  - **The BSC:**

A) Summarizes eBPF technical value

B) Summarizes eBPF technical best practices (incl. endorsed projects; production cookbook; security).

C) Provides steering for larger eBPF technical activities (implementations, libraries, bytecode, documentation).

D) Works to resolve cross-platform eBPF needs.

E) Provides thought leadership for broader eBPF related projects (e.g., deployment/L3AF)

F) Maintains a list of core projects.

G) Provides recommendations to the LF to not include particular "sandbox" projects.

H) Pushes the industry to further support eBPF (e.g., technical work with distros).

I) Occasionally selects eBPF projects to meet with to show support, guidance, and encouragement.

J) Recommends the allocation of foundation resources.

- **Project Lifecycle:**

1. **Exists** : On github.
2. **"Emerging"** : Listed on ebpf.io by anyone (e.g., Isovalent marketing).
3. **"Sandbox"** (optional): Accepted by the LF as an LF project, therefore contributes/grants IP & trademark rights/permissions to the LF. BSC can veto in rare cases where the project is harmful, but the BSC is not reviewing these in depth, and the BSC will not be asked to review or participate with these projects.
4. **"Core"** : A small handful of critical eBPF projects selected by the BSC and reviewed by the BSC. (E.g., libbpf, bcc, Windows eBPF, etc.) See prior task (F).
5. **"Guideline"** : A project recommended by the BSC for a purpose. See prior task (B).

- Discussion

  - Hypothetical e.g.: There are five golang eBPF libraries but we only want to encourage one. All five "exist" and are listed as "emerging." Those that want to be an LF project can apply to the LF and become a "sandbox" project, and some will (between zero and five). The BSC is asked if there is any reason to veto them, and there probably isn't in this case (it's just duplicated work, not, for example, some nasty technical/legal risk). The BSC selects the one that we want to encourage as "core" and the BSC also states this in a guideline doc.

  - "Cookie lickers" and project "squatters": If someone wants to own an important piece before anyone else, but do little or zero work, they may push to be accepted by the LF first as a way to claim ownership of the idea. And they may hope the BSC will help them with details to cement their endorsement. With the above plan, the BSC will only have a chance to veto it becoming a "sandbox" project, and since it sounds ok it shouldn't be vetoed. The LF won't ask the BSC to review it in any more depth. The only involvement by the BSC will be if it does actually get developed and grow important enough to be either considered a core project (task F), part of a guideline doc (task B), or warrant a meeting of encouragement (task I). The BSC does not have the capacity to be involved with every sandbox project.

## Meeting #40 - 2023-07-27

- **Duration:**
- **Chair: Brendan Gregg**
- **Participants:**
  - **Dan Brown**
  - **Joe Stringer**
  - **KP Singh**
  - **Brendan Gregg**
  - **Alexei Starovoitov**
  - **Dave Thaler**
- **Agenda**
  - eBPF Documentary: More interviewees? None come to mind.
  - eBPF Summit: If elections are happening can announce at summit
    - Overlaps with all systems go
    - Close to Tracing summit (Spain) Alexei is presenting
    - Close to Linux security summit
  - Messaging (Dan) no further comments
  - Marketing "state of eBPF" report
    - State, use cases, next year
    - Convey security state? - KP
  - Report on IETF BPF WG meeting 2023-07-24
    - Good meeting
  - Charter voting
    - Why implement voting for the BSC?

      - There has been no problem for eBPF with the make up of the BSC or BSC itself. It was raised that if there had, we would have been told specifics by now. Months ago, someone new to eBPF from the LF raised one problem of the BSC being unwelcoming but did not back it up with specifics, and, the BSC, who is in contact with the community daily and has been for years, has not heard of any problem themselves.

      - The notion of voting was inherited from the copy-n-pasted charter text that we didn't pay much attention to when the foundation was created. In a way, the voting model is at the forefront because we didn't study what we copy-n-pasted.

    - What models should we consider?

      - Taking a step back: It was asked if anyone had a strong preference for a particular model (e.g.: BDFL team, maintainers decide, voting); no one on the call did. Dave strongly wants a model that is documented and matches reality in a year from now.

    - What should we do now?

      - Because no one feels strongly for anything, the only proposal discussed at length is the voting process inherited from the charter text, which Joe has been turning into a documented proposal.

      - This proposal can be made a separate "process document" that the charter refers to, and can be updated as we fine tune things and learn of unexpected issues.

      - It was proposed that the first round of voting be in some ways a trial run for the process.

      - We will follow up over email so that others on the BSC who were not on the call have a chance to discuss.

    - What happens if no one (or few people) vote?

      - Do we want a minimum number of votes to make an election valid? Seems not.

      - It was proposed that the GB or BSC "ratify" an election and checks that things worked, and voters were informed and had a chance to vote.

## Meeting #39 - 2023-07-12

- **Duration:**
- **Chair: Alexei Starovoitov**
- **Participants:**
  - **Dan Brown**
  - **KP Singh**
  - **Dave Thaler**
  - **Joe Stringer**
  - **Brendan Gregg**
  - **Daniel Borkmann**
  - **Mike Dolan**
- **Agenda**
  - update from GB
    - "the BSC will set initial term length so as to stagger elections"
    - charter October deadline is ambiguous
    - Ideas:

      - Only let maintainers e.g. of major projects vote

      - Solves various issues

        - Keeps bad actors out

        - Keeps MS in for eBPF for windows

    - Voters: "Projects/individuals that have helped advance the progress of eBPF in the last year."
    - Joe will send a list of voters and nominees to bsc mailing list.

## Meeting #38 - 2023-06-28

- **Duration:**
- **Chair: KP Singh**
- **Participants:**
  - **Dan Brown**
  - **KP Singh**
  - **Lisa Caywood**
  - **Alexei Starovoitov**
  - **Andrii Nakryiko**
  - **Dave Thaler**
  - **Joe Stringer**
  - **Brendan Gregg**
  - **Daniel Borkmann**
- **Agenda**
  - IETF WG update (Dave?)
    - Emails went out a week ago, official announcements sent out.
    - [IETF 117 Meeting Agenda](https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/117/agenda)
    - WG meets regularly
      - 1300 Pacific on 24th.
      - Announce so that folks can book.
      - The week is fixed, the slots may change.
    - Alexei: Please CC BPF@IETF and BPF kernel mailing list
      - AI(Dave): Forward email
  - BPF Docs repository under eBPF will move to IETF
    - [http://github.com/ietf-wg-bpf](http://github.com/ietf-wg-bpf)  is the github organization.
  - [Windows roadmap](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1bsGgk_bxuhHxCxc_UXxEa62R-prAX0eNpwkT19_OeFY/edit?usp=sharing) [KP Singh/Dave]
    - Updating slides live
    - bpf / [dtrace on windows](https://github.com/microsoft/DTrace-on-Windows) overlap
    - Alexei: How do we keep parity between BPF on Linux / Windows?
      - Contributions are welcome.
      - Reactive
      - Demand enables parity (similar with ARM).
      - Runtimes that use PREVAIL often use uBPF, so uBPF feature additions result in demand for corresponding PREVAIL additions (e.g., local calls).
      - Biased opinion: Standardization.
      - KP / Dave will work on updating the slides offline.
  - [Brendan] legal update
    - Met with Intel legal and Intel open source. Intel legal will draft a proposal, "3 sentences long" for meeting preamble. Set expectations clearly around the public nature of this meeting.
    - Protect the community and ecosystem from accidental exposure to proprietary information.
  - [Brendan] Purpose of admitting projects into the foundation + expected process.
    - Example process from Kubernetes for arranging sessions with a SIG: [https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-security/issues/91](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-security/issues/91)
  - Announcement about [IETF | IETF blog & news](https://www.ietf.org/blog/all/)
  - [Lisa] Joint Board & BSC meeting July 12th
    - Group is meeting with the board to discuss the changes to the election process with the board in 2 weeks.
    - If there are any changes that need to be made, these need to be finalized before 12th July.
    - Brendan: Cannot join, Committee as a "whole" is, why does it need to be done on the 12th and not next year.
    - Lisa: The group was supposed to be having elections

## Meeting #37 - 2023-06-14

- **Duration:**
- **Chair: Joe Stringer**
- **Participants:**
  - **Dan Brown**
  - **Daniel Havey**
  - **KP Singh**
  - **Lisa Caywood**
  - **Alexei Starovoitov**
  - **Andrii Nakryiko**
  - **Dave Thaler**
  - **Daniel Borkmann**
- **Agenda**
  - [20m] [messaging document](https://nam06.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdocs.google.com%2Fdocument%2Fd%2F1ws6DxSA91XvHVFhPzsf1y3645OYY3PXr1_Zc4bfd3Ko%2Fedit%3Fusp%3Dsharing&data=05%7C01%7Cdthaler%40microsoft.com%7C6834fed78eba40e1eb3508db5d36cd97%7C72f988bf86f141af91ab2d7cd011db47%7C1%7C0%7C638206262221231034%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=wFc5CqBwF1LQvUPbHt6D65RQ9rGwD%2BLTjG5asxaD%2F20%3D&reserved=0) from marketing committee [Lisa/Dan]
    - Point 1 - wording is a bit loose.
      - Follow up over email
    - Point 3 - Angle from hyperscalers is tricky to back up.
      - Is it about Performance or Production Proven?
      - The latter.
      - Discussed what "production" means - includes for example millions of Android devices
    - Goal: Provide feedback by Tuesday
  - [20m] Charter amendment proposals
    - BSC membership
      - [Proposal](https://github.com/joestringer/bsc/commit/04445829620a3dc8b11c7b87e057a9b79bd465f0)
        - Nominee eligibility - initially keep it open / undefined in charter?
        - Voter eligibility - Should be specified in Charter
    - Direction of funds
      - [Proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lT4k4fHHPOeuo1hdjKB-clfHsLfGn9BtTsojcsNysd0/edit)

  - [20m] Continue discussion of BSC charter and elections process [Lisa/Joe/Dave]
    - [Nominee list brainstorm](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RqgTjoXAPB5zQxsuVxgCy0vzWjFd_nG1BZZSwm4OJyo/edit?usp=sharing)
      - Needs a public call for participation
    - [Voters process and project list](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PZjefD4cRWcH0xy2GxtpxEXGIYqFUbWNtiKuGdthfnU/edit?usp=drivesdk)
      - We have a list (
      - Discussion on difference between ebepf.io / ebpf.foundation.
  - Project nominations
    - _Pending IP discussion, may be further bumped to a later session:_
    - BTFHub ([https://github.com/aquasecurity/btfhub](https://nam06.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Faquasecurity%2Fbtfhub&data=05%7C01%7Cdthaler%40microsoft.com%7C6834fed78eba40e1eb3508db5d36cd97%7C72f988bf86f141af91ab2d7cd011db47%7C1%7C0%7C638206262221231034%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=KJE1Wz1Wvi%2B8%2BHXdCE9RqZGiS2JXcSpuIT2rku1FTHU%3D&reserved=0)) submission as Technical Project
    - Libbpfgo ([https://github.com/aquasecurity/libbpfgo](https://nam06.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Faquasecurity%2Flibbpfgo&data=05%7C01%7Cdthaler%40microsoft.com%7C6834fed78eba40e1eb3508db5d36cd97%7C72f988bf86f141af91ab2d7cd011db47%7C1%7C0%7C638206262221231034%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=2Hr%2FOOwe79VHYJo0GyRPaocqm2TpOD4FYXt591Ehbt4%3D&reserved=0)) submission as Technical Project

## Meeting #36 - 2023-05-31

- **Duration:**
- **Chair: Dave Thaler**
- **Participants:**
  - **Alexei Starovoitov**
  - **Brendan Gregg**
  - **Joe Stringer**
  - **Andrii Nakryiko**
  - **KP Singh**
  - **Daniel Borkmann**
  - **Lisa Caywood**
- **AGENDA**
  - Report on May 9 board meeting feedback on BSC report, from [minutes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HTDYYYbfeu-BjalMX81CPNSp_1ysnOz56pf4LAbMDYA/edit):
    - Regarding creating a security whitepaper: "Thomas suggested that Isovalent could help. Thomas added that they have hired a good security researcher analyst who has actually written the security.md for cilium and he would be happy to check if they can volunteer that person to make a first proposal. Isovalent had actually come to this conclusion that this is needed over 2 years ago, and then it failed because they didn't have anybody to actually do a first version. He also said that he is confident that the community will contribute, but the real effort lies in writing this from scratch. Lastly Thomas offered to connect the resource person to the BSC members through the mailing list. Ram added that it is an expected behavior for high-volume systems to drop packets, and having a whitepaper would probably be fine but maybe talking broadly on this through Blog is another option that we could consider. Thomas agreed with this suggestion on writing Blogs."
      - AI [Daniel/Joe]: talk to Thomas about someone to hold pen on whitepaper
    - Regarding charter amendments: "2 charter amendments in a future meeting for the Board to actually vote on: one about BSC makeup and one on the direction of funds to projects in general. Though, the direction of funds to projects in general might not require a charter update just an update to the document (project progression policy)", and action to "facilitate a joint session among the Governing Board and BSC together to essentially work out something in a more timely fashion, just to avoid a 3 month process from this point. Both Dave and Lisa agreed to this suggestion by Thomas, and Dave said that BSC may need one or two meetings, which may take a month from now, before they could participate in such a joint meeting"
      - Proposal: BSC to put together straw-man proposal by June 14 meeting, and plan to schedule joint meeting shortly thereafter for initial discussion with GB.
    - Lisa drafted the one about BSC makeup
    - Need a volunteer for funding (meeting #33)
      - [Prior discussion](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1G33tM2HyDTDG-O04k1by8M3u2pv0j0GcIM9Yo-LFM7k/edit#bookmark=id.xim3jb4mhf39)
  - IP risks [Brendan]
    - Scott Nicholas (LF Legal) has a conflict during this time, but will reach out to Intel legal to discuss Windows [roadmap](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IbYCopXI_pyhlAQAwMDjalF1cc9k2NOfFuMzvNJItLQ/edit#heading=h.4rb6lqa4huig) [KP Singh/Dave]
    - Brendan's story: don't have private meetings with startups without a legal agreement in place
    - Brendan's story: not all startups are friendly for the eBPF Foundation's mission
    - Brendan's story: the only thing that matters is what is signed
    - Question: is a notice at start of meeting sufficient or do we need evidence of agreement (click I Agree or whatever else)?  **AI: Brendan** to check with legal
      - Anti-trust slide we also have for GB meetings, is that sufficient?
      - [https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/legal/antitrust-policy)
    - Encourage wording when discussing technical solutions on BSC meetings:
      - _In your Open Source project_, how do you do X?
    - Option: Can we evaluate projects without meetings, and only call meetings if/when necessary?
  - IETF update
    - [https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/charter-ietf-bpf/](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/charter-ietf-bpf/)
    - Charter sent out for IETF-wide review, comments due by June 10
    - On agenda of 2023-06-22 IESG telechat
- Moved to following meeting June 14th:
  - BTFHub ([https://github.com/aquasecurity/btfhub](https://nam06.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Faquasecurity%2Fbtfhub&data=05%7C01%7Cdthaler%40microsoft.com%7C6834fed78eba40e1eb3508db5d36cd97%7C72f988bf86f141af91ab2d7cd011db47%7C1%7C0%7C638206262221231034%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=KJE1Wz1Wvi%2B8%2BHXdCE9RqZGiS2JXcSpuIT2rku1FTHU%3D&reserved=0)) submission as Technical Project
  - Libbpfgo ([https://github.com/aquasecurity/libbpfgo](https://nam06.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Faquasecurity%2Flibbpfgo&data=05%7C01%7Cdthaler%40microsoft.com%7C6834fed78eba40e1eb3508db5d36cd97%7C72f988bf86f141af91ab2d7cd011db47%7C1%7C0%7C638206262221231034%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=2Hr%2FOOwe79VHYJo0GyRPaocqm2TpOD4FYXt591Ehbt4%3D&reserved=0)) submission as Technical Project
  - [messaging document](https://nam06.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdocs.google.com%2Fdocument%2Fd%2F1ws6DxSA91XvHVFhPzsf1y3645OYY3PXr1_Zc4bfd3Ko%2Fedit%3Fusp%3Dsharing&data=05%7C01%7Cdthaler%40microsoft.com%7C6834fed78eba40e1eb3508db5d36cd97%7C72f988bf86f141af91ab2d7cd011db47%7C1%7C0%7C638206262221231034%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=wFc5CqBwF1LQvUPbHt6D65RQ9rGwD%2BLTjG5asxaD%2F20%3D&reserved=0) from marketing committee [Lisa/Dan]


## Meeting #35 - 2023-05-17

- **Duration:**
- **Chair: Daniel Borkmann**
- **Participants:**
  - **Daniel Borkmann**
  - **Dave Thaler**
  - **Dan Brown**
  - **Joe Stringer**
  - **Alexei Starovoitov**
  - **Brendan Gregg**
  - **Andrii Nakryiko**
  - **KP Singh**
- **AGENDA**
  - Quick status webinar functionality [Dan]
    - Rough ETA for webinar functionality next month
  - Charter and elections process [Lisa/Joe/Dave]
    - Options:
      - Current categories e.g. runtime, lib, etc as we have today
      - Lisa's proposal: Dropping categories and instead:
        - Active contributors to landscape projects
          - Nr commits/PR may not say much / can be gamed
          - Issues: large projects like LLVM may just have small BPF related group
        - Brendan's suggestion: people eligible "you have demonstrated that you furthered the eBPF ecosystem"
        - Questions:
          - Should there be seat categories or just a set of unspecified seats?
          - Voting eligibility based on landscape projects.
            - Alternative: Any active members
            - Alternative: Top N active members
            - Alternative: Should each landscape project get 1 vote (Linux gets 2)?
          - Practical steps:
            - BSC compile two lists of individuals in the eBPF community
              - Nominees (eg 20-50)
              - Voters (eg 200+)
            - Before sending vote out, check with nominees if they are interested in participating.
            - Each year, new BSC reviews these lists.
            - Voters get an email for something like Condorce to rank nominees. Voting system similar to LF TAB.
          - AI(Joe): Begin assembling lists
            - (?) Call for participation
            - Nominees - start a document shared with BSC to collect names
            - Voters - Joe to write a script to pull these from landscape projects
            - Joe to send the list of landscape projects to BSC list to confirm whether we are missing any eBPF community groups
            - No particular seat categories, half/half swap (2yrs, 1yr overlap).
            - Needs charter amendment
          - Deciding split this time
            - Top 4 nominees this time get 2 year terms, next four get 1 year terms.
          - AI(Joe): Prepare an alternate wording for the charter amendment that would capture the removal of the member categories without encoding the election process in the charter.
          - Alexei: We should have a dedicated mailinglist for any voters for the BSC.
            - These members are the core folks who care about eBPF, regardless of whether they are directly on BSC or not.
            - E.g. LSF/MM/BPF, LLVM, gcc, projects, etc.
            - Needs permission from folks we add there
            - Useful also for CFPs etc
            - Dave: Don't see the need for this to be "nominees" list. For voting or generally for active BPF contributors, we need a broader list for voters.
  - [IETF BPF WG charter](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/charter-ietf-bpf/): anything to discuss? [Dave]
    - Already got 1 Yes vote with minor editorial feedback: [[Bpf] Warren Kumari's Yes on charter-ietf-bpf-00-03: (with COMMENT)](https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/bpf/8EiHJ4OSjjRsR8e0pzYGrCF-DVM/)
  - BPF Conformance project submission [Dave]
    - Goals seem beneficial
    - Would it remain on Alan's github user? He's indicated that he's open to moving it into a BPF foundation / BSC organization in GitHub.
    - BSC voted to accept it as a technical project
    - Next steps
      - AI(Dave): Reach out to Alan regarding legal procedures
      - Following that, requires board approval to finalize
  - Windows roadmap [KP Singh/Dave]

## Meeting #34 - 2023-05-03

- **Duration:**
- **Chair: Brendan Gregg**
- **Participants:**
  - **Joe Stringer**
  - **Dave Thaler**
  - **Dan Brown**
  - **Lisa Caywood**
  - **Alexei Starovoitov**
  - **Andrii Nakryiko**
  - **KP Singh**
  - **Daniel Borkmann**
- **AGENDA**
  - BSC meeting zoom panelist links
    - AI: Dan Brown will check what we are supposed to use and send out more detailed instructions for next time
  - bcc security vulnerability - Brendan
    - No details reported yet, so no embargoed info
    - Brendan did a blog post about known bcc observability tool issues: DoS and TOCTOU: [https://www.brendangregg.com/blog/2023-04-28/ebpf-security-issues.html](https://www.brendangregg.com/blog/2023-04-28/ebpf-security-issues.html) KP has done a POC [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l8jZ-8uLdVU](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l8jZ-8uLdVU)
    - [https://defcon.org/html/defcon-29/dc-29-speakers.html#guo](https://defcon.org/html/defcon-29/dc-29-speakers.html#guo)
    - Apparently not a known issue
    - Discussion: could be a kernel panic (e.g., tickling an existing kprobe issue)
    - Discussion regarding security expectations for some capabilities, e.g. syscall hooks / LSM hooks and TOCTOU. ELF input to libbpf/ btf.
    - Dave: Could we have a foundation doc to summarize "eBPF and security" we can point people to. Should cover:
      - eBPF is your friend in security
      - Observability tools are not security tools (and never have been), and currently need root access anyway
      - How to configure bpf to be secure (e.g., no interpreter, no unpriv access)
    - KP: eBPF security post should explore UID 0 vs CAPs. Also note that CVEs don't mean much for us when pretty much any kernel bug could be a CVE as well.
      - CPE score is higher if a system has unprivileged eBPF
      - AI: KP to start from Brendan's blog and expand it to a draft foundation doc?
    - Cilium security doc: [https://github.com/cilium/cilium/blob/main/SECURITY.md](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/blob/main/SECURITY.md)
    - Github (in Cilium we have this enabled): [https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/getting-started/adding-a-security-policy-to-your-repository](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/getting-started/adding-a-security-policy-to-your-repository)
    - Brendan: bcc/bpftrace can add a "security.txt" to summarise security stance and recommendations to file security bugs, and if there is a bug bounty
    - Dave: once we have projects in the foundation, should we have security response policy guidelines similar to [governance/security-response-policies.md at main · confidential-computing/governance (github.com)](https://github.com/confidential-computing/governance/blob/main/security-response-policies.md)?
      - Dave to open a PR to discuss in a future BSC meeting
    - Action items:
      - BCC README update for security policy
      - Whitepaper for security guidance for eBPF (KP to draft for BSC review)
  - LSF/MM/BPF next week!
    - Joe: can raise awareness of BSC
  - BPF governing board
    - point (2): "Voting Process: Importantly on the nominees, and who are all the voters (electorate), avoiding overlap, preferably, between the two,  etc."
    - Lisa: what about letting, say, the top 50 contributors to recognized BPF related projects vote on the new BSC seats?

## Meeting #33 - 2023-04-19

- **Duration:**
- **Chair: Andrii Nakryiko**
- **Participants:**
  - **Alexei Starovoitov**
  - **Daniel Borkmann**
  - **Brendan Gregg**
  - **Joe Stringer**
  - **KP Singh**
  - **Dan Brown**
  - **Dave Thaler**
- **AGENDA:**
  - eBPF Foundation Governing Board kindly requests BSC to resolve the following in the upcoming BSC meeting(s):
    - Initial term duration: What should be the initial term for the 8 original members (now reduced to 7), and if it is same for all the categories.
      - Straw man (Dave): Set initial 2-year terms, resolve to nominate 1 year vs. 2 year terms for upcoming election. Do election before October.
    - Voting Process: Importantly on the nominees, and who are all the voters (electorate), avoiding overlap, preferably, between the two, etc.
      - Lisa: consider letting contributors to projects participate in a condorcet vote
      - Dave: [Condorcet Internet Voting Service (civs.us)](https://civs1.civs.us/)
    - Staggered Voting: If all the members be selected in one go or will it be staggered (preferred). If it is staggered, what will be the order?, tentative dates (if possible), etc.
      - Charter says staggered. We had previously discussed splitting each category to allow continuity within a category from one election to the next.
  - From Alexei:
    - Some iovisor folks expressed several concerns (in attached pdf)
    - regarding the structure of BSC.
    - Let's discuss them tomorrow during our meeting.
    - Nature of funding mechanisms
      - BSC desire to be able to direct funds towards development of features that will benefit the eBPF community, regardless of whether the target software is a member of the eBPF foundation
        - Applies to bpftrace etc (also IOVisor)
        - Applies to LLVM, GCC
        - Applies to Linux kernel (verifier improvements, docs)
        - Faster uprobes (no existing project)
        - Security audits
        - eBPF tutorials, training material
        - etc.
      - There should clearly be some base guidelines
        - OSS
        - eBPF as a core technology
        - Statement of Work
        - etc
      - We would need proposed wording + present to board and eventually vote etc. to change the charter.
        - AI(Alexei): Initial wording proposal regarding projects vs funding independent of foundation project or not
     - Lisa: Wrt contractors for certain technical work items, this may be possible by just directly proposing to the board:
        - Cost
        - Duration
        - Expected outcome/SOW
    - Voting membership
      - Technical projects are making this complicated. One idea: Eliminate them.
    - Opening the call to the public
      - Happy to make the meetings transparent for anyone to join in listen-only mode
      - Primary concern is just moderation - Avoid derailing BSC meeting
        - Related: Early BPF summit had targeted attacks, profanity, etc.
      - We can experiment with new Zoom options to test out settings to allow this.
        - Webinar - Host + Panelists + Viewers.
        - Panelists may be invited from prior discussion with BSC (just ask)
        - AI(Dan): Set up the zoom for next meeting


## Meeting #32 - 2023-04-05

- **Duration:**
- **Chair:**
  - **KP Singh**
- **Participants:**
  - **Daniel Borkmann**
  - **Joe Stringer**
  - **Kenny Paul**
  - **Dan Brown**
  - **Brendan Gregg**
  - **Alexei Starovoitov**
  - **Andrii Nakryiko**
- **AGENDA:**
  - eBPF foundation messaging from marketing committee [Dan]
    - Generalization from the kernel to privileged system context
    - Broader message around generality and beyond kernel
  - Iovisor meeting [Kenny]
    - I/O visor can move to BPF-F after sending a formal request
      - Upcoming sub-projects should be able to apply, some logistics need to be figured out.
      - [Joe] We need to make this low overhead and low friction.
      - eBPF or I/O visor is up-to the community of the project
      - Give users an objective criteria to select their foundation.
        - Kenny: Some pros and cons.
        - Projects get legal entities?
          - Clarify if there are legal implications of project joining one foundation or the other.
      - TL; DR roadblock for I/O visor joining eBPF-F has been removed.

  - Update from IETF116 [Dave/Alexei/Daniel]
    - OASIS:
      - Main seen as putting rubber stamp, but less strong as IETF, so vendors would prefer IETF RFC instead as it has wider industry reach
    - Licensing side-meeting:
      - Dual license of the doc seems okay, no road block from IETF side. IETF legal looking into it, but for now no specific issues come to their mind.
      - We might need to put the docs into subdir with ‘note well‘ doc so contributors are aware that their patch will in the end feed into current/future RFCs
      - IETF legal will get back to us within next 2-3 weeks
    - BOF went well, generally no objections from IETF community on forming a working group for the standardization effort
      - [Slides:](https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/116/session/bpf/)
      - [Summary notes:](https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/bpf/JTUytbt_kEscF0oC_P8LvRREFo0/)
    - Charter side-meeting:
      - Applying feedback from BOF and discussion on deliverables from BPF wg in particular whether charter needs to be refined or scoped down in some areas (like cross-platform map/prog types)
      - [Latest:](https://github.com/ekline/bpf/blob/main/charter-ietf-bpf.txt)
    - ^^^AI(everyone): Please look at the IETF Charter document and share your thoughts.
  - BPF Technical roadmap details have been filled out for Linux, quick walk through and we should publish it
    - [Roadmap](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IbYCopXI_pyhlAQAwMDjalF1cc9k2NOfFuMzvNJItLQ/edit#heading=h.4rb6lqa4huig)
    - Finalize details for windows too.

## Meeting #31 - 2023-03-22

- **Duration:**
- **Chair:**
  - **Alexei Starovoitov**
- **Participants:**
  - **David Vernet**
  - **Andrii Nakryiko**
  - **Brendan Gregg**
  - **Alexei Starovoitov**
  - **Daniel Borkmann**
  - **Lisa Caywood**
  - **Dave Havey**
  - **Dan Brown**
  - **Joe Stringer**
  - **Mykola Lysenko**
  - **Manu Bretelle**
- **AGENDA:**
  - Lisa: [core messaging doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ws6DxSA91XvHVFhPzsf1y3645OYY3PXr1_Zc4bfd3Ko/edit#heading=h.ymrt225km0jh)
    - Looks good
    - Next steps is marketing group to iterate to make it more concrete
    - AI(KP): Update with security enhancements based on eBPF.
    - KP: Linux-specific - Kernel modules vs. eBPF implementations. Could be blog posts. Different user journey / developer workflows with benefits when taking an eBPF path.
    - How will it be used?
      - Internal guide for how to approach content creation
    - Misconceptions
      - Security
      - Complex programs
      - Gartner: eBPF – While it is realistic for technology vendors and hyperscalers, most enterprises lack the expertise and skills necessary to use eBPF. [Blog](https://blogs.gartner.com/andrew-lerner/2021/10/11/networking-hype-cycle-2021/)
  - IETF <> [OASIS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OASIS_\(organization\)) as standardization body, pro/con
    - [OASIS-OPEN](https://www.oasis-open.org/)
    - Well-established, published standards for XML, Virt-I/O
    - Process eventually goes through ISO for recognition
    - Relatively short timelines for steps in the process
    - Can we reach out to others that previously went through this process? Get their perspective?
      - [Virt-I/O](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=virtio)
      - [Michael Tsirkin](ms@redhat.com)
      - Questions:
        - How was the process for v1.0? What about v1.1?
        - What was the feedback process like with OASIS?
    - Community aspect - who will contribute to the standard
      - How would Technical Advisory Group (TAG) work in OASIS?
    - How do new iterations of documents work?
      - Full doc or extensions/errata/etc.
  - Discuss licensing of BPF doc vs IETF licensing requirements
    - Currently GPL+BSD, question wrt IETF process
    - GPL - makes internal kernel copy clearer
    - BSD-only seems fine, but we would need to discuss with the contributors to the files.
      - Some kernel uapi headers have used single permissive license already, so there is some precedence.
    - non-BSD license is a no-go.
  - [BPF Technical Roadmap](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1bsGgk_bxuhHxCxc_UXxEa62R-prAX0eNpwkT19_OeFY/edit#slide=id.g14930a8517c_0_0)
    - What's the best way to publish this technical roadmap?
    - Publish to ebpf.foundation
    - KP to work with Dan Brown on this.

## Meeting #30 - 2023-03-08

- **Duration:**
- **Chair:**
  - **Joe Stringer**
- **Participants:**
  - **Dave Thaler**
  - **KP Singh**
  - **Andrii Nakryiko**
  - **Brendan Gregg**
  - **Alexei Starovoitov**
  - **Daniel Borkmann**
  - **Lisa Caywood**
- **AGENDA:**
  - Review previous action items
    - [Participate – eBPF](https://ebpf.foundation/participate/)
    - FYI - [Labs now up](https://ebpf.io/get-started/)
      - We could create more
      - We can use these for IETF hackathon
      - Question(Dave): Does Isovalent want to contribute these to the foundation?
      - FYI also for marketing committee.
      - AI(Daniel): Talk to Liz Rice about this.
  - Update from Lisa - new marketing person from LF
    - Figuring out marketing strategy etc.
  - IETF update
    - Dave: [IETF 116 Meeting Agenda](https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/116/agenda/)
    - 5 interesting items:
      - Hackathon (sat/sun)
      - Welcome (sun)
      - BPF session (mon)
      - Hackdemo Happy Hour	
      - Side meeting yet to be scheduled
    - Deadline for drafts 5pm PT next Monday
      - AI(Dave): Snapshots for instruction set + ELF proposals
      - AI(Everyone): Register for remote participation
        - Link: [IETF Registration](https://registration.ietf.org/116/)
  - IOVisor subprojects: Invite drafted to IOVisor board
    - [Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gU3ATGrUX3w7J1FoaKClZ2IXskqe3xx1fOhj73_UK1g/edit)
    - Next step: Invite Yunsong + Fulvio onto an upcoming BSC session
      - Likely 5 April
      - Sridhar+Kenny should also be invited for LF context
      - AI(Dave): Extend an invite
  - Landscape projects, List thread from Reza Ramezanpour
    - [Related PR:](https://github.com/ebpf-io/ebpf.io-website/pull/349)
    - Last notes do not have a conclusion
    - Example (KP): Project migrating to BPF. When can it be added as emerging project?
    - Dave: Falco, Calico, even Linux fails this point:
      - The project must be using eBPF as its underlying core technology, in other words, a project would lose its purpose if the eBPF parts are removed.
    - Proposal:
      - "It must encourage the deployment/use of" BPF.
      - CCC language example: “accelerate the adoption of”
      - Two steps:
      - Action on Calico ebpf.io PR - AI(Daniel): [Update: Add project Calico to the projects page by frozenprocess · Pull Request #349 · ebpf-io/ebpf.io-website (github.com)](https://github.com/ebpf-io/ebpf.io-website/pull/349)
      - Language update to landscape requirements, on both ebpf.io and ebpf.foundation - AI(KP)
        - Ebpf.foundation doc to update: [bsc/project-progression-policy.md at master · ebpffoundation/bsc (github.com)](https://github.com/ebpffoundation/bsc/blob/master/project-progression-policy.md#iii-requirements-for-technical-projects)
        - Ebpf.io doc to update: [ebpf.io-website/faq.jsx at master · ebpf-io/ebpf.io-website (github.com)](https://github.com/ebpf-io/ebpf.io-website/blob/master/src/components/pages/project-landscape/faq/faq.jsx)
      - Guard against “eBPF washing”: Default install on common platforms deploys with BPF programs?
      - Brendan: Title at the top: "The following projects use BPF at the core of the project"
        - Potentially curated list from BSC at the eBPF foundation page
      - Brendan: ‘eBPF recommended project’
      - Lisa: Avoid product / company links. Stick to OSS projects.
      - Dave: foundation currently gives visibility to non-foundation landscape projects, at [Projects – eBPF](https://ebpf.foundation/projects/) but it’s out of date compared to ebpf.io. Merging the calico PR on ebpf.io will not add Calico to the ebpf.foundation page, notably. Need a separate PR or process to “recognize” it from the foundation.
      - Foundation page should also list ongoing engagements/projects that have BSC involvement
        - BPF standardization @ IETF
        - Technical Roadmap
        - Organization of BPF technical confs
        - …
      - Lisa: Role of the foundation here, messaging.
        - AI(Lisa): Share the brainstorm doc with the BSC list

## Meeting #29 - 2023-02-08

- **Duration:**
  - **1h**
- **Chair:**
  - **Dave Thaler**
- **Participants:**
  - **Dave Thaler**
  - **KP Singh**
  - **Andrii Nakryiko**
  - **Brendan Gregg**
  - **Lorenz Bauer**
  - **Alexei**
  - **Daniel**
- **AGENDA**
  - [Lorenz] Employed at Isovalent now
    - This means there are three BSC members, which is against our charter
    - Will come back to this if Joe joins, regarding charter/BSC election status
  - IO Visor discussion
    - Previous AI Joe: reach out Fulvio, plus invitation of both of them to BSC meeting
    - Email from Sridhar re Yunsong Lu
  - IETF prep, report on previous AIs
    - Previous AI Dave: request side-meeting
    - Previous AI Daniel: announcing to bpf@vger to Cc ietf list for doc changes related to standardization
    - Previous AI Dave: till March 13th posting snapshot of internet draft of BPF RFC
    - Status of BOF request
  - [Dave, Daniel] Landscape projects
    - How do we deal with "projects" that have an eBPF component or mode but also have non-eBPF components/modes?
    - Is the answer the same or different for ebpf.io vs ebpf.foundation (incl. BSC eligibility)?
    - Various different cases:
      - Calico
      - Falco
      - clang/LLVM
      - gcc
      - Linux
      - …
  - Continue [BPF Technical Roadmap - Google Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1bsGgk_bxuhHxCxc_UXxEa62R-prAX0eNpwkT19_OeFY/edit#slide=id.g14930a8517c_0_0)
    - [Dave] Windows BPF roadmap discussion
  - KP: psABI = "processor specific" ABI https://refspecs.linuxfoundation.org/elf/IA64-SysV-psABI.pdf
  - Publishing BSC minutes on [bsc/minutes.md at master · ebpffoundation/bsc (github.com)
](https://github.com/ebpffoundation/bsc/blob/master/minutes.md)[IETF 116 Hackathon | IETF Community Wiki](https://wiki.ietf.org/en/meeting/116/hackathon)

## Meeting #28 - 2023-01-25

- **Duration:**
  - **1h**
- **Chair:**
  - **Daniel Borkmann**
- **Participants:**
  - **Brendan Gregg**
  - **Andrii Nakryiko**
  - **Dave Thaler**
  - **Alexei Starovoitov**
  - **Joe Stringer**
  - **Lisa Caywood**
- **AGENDA**
  - [Joe] Update on LF / iovisor \<\> eBPF foundation
    - Sridhar reached out to Yunsong to check how eBPF foundation + iovisor would work.
    - Yunsong's PoV:
      - Non-overlapping scope where eBPF foundation could subsume iovisor
      - iovisor could join eBPF foundation
      - iovisor scope:
        - Virtualized in-kernel I/O, doesn't strictly say it has to be eBPF
      - Yunsong likely at IETF
    - No reach out yet to Fulvio, discussion continues
    - **AI Joe:** reach out Fulvio, plus invitation of both of them to BSC meeting
  - [Brendan] Strategy with regards to startups trying to own an important piece of eBPF ecosystem behind closed doors and/or as patented technology
    - Defensive publication for prior art
    - Example:
      - Placing ideas into technical roadmap of BSC
      - Blog posts on ideas
    - Should we file defensive patents as a foundation?
      - Price  tag ~100k per patent
      - Foundation potentially could do that if we see fit
    - Encouraging to upstream core infra pieces into kernel, cannot live OOT
      - Example: fast uprobes
  - [Dave] update on prep for IETF and Internet-Draft submission
    - [Re: [Bpf] [Tools-discuss] reStructuredText (rst) to xml2rfc? (ietf.org)](https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/bpf/f9L2rdNYGc-ekJL1dxA9owogFlg/)
      - Example/draft output from tool:  [https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebpffoundation/ebpf-docs/pdf/draft-thaler-bpf-isa.html](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ebpffoundation/ebpf-docs/pdf/draft-thaler-bpf-isa.html)
        - Auto-updated from master branch via GH action
    - BPF BOF likely to get approved, list of proposals:
      - [https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/important-dates/](https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/important-dates/)
      - BOF request expand to 3h or another side-meeting
      - Side-meeting not going into proceedings, side-meeting before the BOF scheduled
      - **AI Dave:** request side-meeting
      - [https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/bofreq-thaler-bpf-ebpf/](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/bofreq-thaler-bpf-ebpf/)
      - **AI Daniel:** announcing to bpf@vger to Cc ietf list for doc changes related to standardization
      - **AI Dave:** till March 13th posting snapshot of internet draft of BPF RFC
      - BPF ELF format wip draft: [ebpf-docs-1/rst at elf · dthaler/ebpf-docs-1 (github.com)](https://github.com/dthaler/ebpf-docs-1/tree/elf/rst)
  - [AI: all] Continue to extend [BPF Technical Roadmap - Google Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1bsGgk_bxuhHxCxc_UXxEa62R-prAX0eNpwkT19_OeFY/edit#slide=id.g14930a8517c_0_0)
    - [Dave] Windows BPF roadmap discussion
    - To be continued next meeting

## Meeting #27 - 2023-01-11

- **Duration:**
  - **1h**
- **Chair:**
  - **Brendan Gregg**
- **Participants:**
  - **Brendan Gregg**
  - **Andrii Nakryiko**
  - **Dave Thaler**
  - **Alexei Starovoitov**
  - **Daniel Borkmann**
  - **Joe Stringer**
  - **KP Singh**
- **AGENDA**
  - [IETF 116](https://www.ietf.org/how/meetings/116/) ([https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/bofreq-thaler-bpf-ebpf/](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/bofreq-thaler-bpf-ebpf/))
    - Yokohama Japan, March 25-31. Should be cherry blossom season: take your camera!
    - With regards to travel, do we know which day the BOF might take place?
      - [Dave] Per [IETF 116: Important Dates](https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/116/important-dates/), the IESG decision whether to grant a BOF will be by Feb 17th.  A draft agenda answering the "which day" question will be available by Feb 24th, and the agenda will be final by March 3.
    - Process for Visa invitations: [IETF | Visa Application Process](https://www.ietf.org/how/meetings/116/116-visa-application-process/)
    - Any other plans @ IETF outside BOF?
      - [Dave] Likely will be used in various [hackathon](https://wiki.ietf.org/en/meeting/116/hackathon) projects
  - Misc bits [Daniel]:
    - LSF/MM/BPF CFP is out ([https://lore.kernel.org/bpf/Y7hDVliKq+PzY1yY@localhost.localdomain/](https://lore.kernel.org/bpf/Y7hDVliKq+PzY1yY@localhost.localdomain/))
      - Vancouver, May 8-10
    - FOSDEM kernel devroom schedule ([https://fosdem.org/2023/schedule/track/kernel/](https://fosdem.org/2023/schedule/track/kernel/))
      - Brussels Feb 4,5
    - [BPF Conference spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1aLBiGI2-xRQ6AtWwiFK59brjt52oQVeRt5cgqf14Yx4/edit#gid=1036541245&fvid=143074800)
    - Adding events to the foundation website for upcoming conferences
      - Cloud native security con [bpf talks](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cloudnativesecuritycon-north-america/program/schedule/) (search bpf)
      - AI(Daniel): Bill should reach out to Sridhar to arrange
  - SREcon, Singapore [Brendan]
    - KP may know people; Alexei
  - BPF naming: BPF as a superset
    - [https://ebpf.io/what-is-ebpf#what-do-ebpf-and-bpf-stand-for](https://ebpf.io/what-is-ebpf#what-do-ebpf-and-bpf-stand-for)
  - BPF on systemd; can systemd manage lifecycle of BPF everything? [Alexei]
    - What about people using k8 to manage everything? [Joe]
    - Currently L3AFd does try to do this for BPF [Dave]; L3AFd is cross-platform
      - Walmart is using it now.
      - Discussion on how L3AFd works - API-based configuration, etc. Give it a URL + commands to execute the user+bpf kernel progs
  - Intel joining eBPF foundation: waiting on LF
  - Fedora frame pointers approved and planned for a release
    - Brendan to do blog post on stack walking and BPF
    - (lookup sframe stuff)
    - [https://fosdem.org/2023/schedule/event/walking\_stack\_without\_frame\_pointers/](https://fosdem.org/2023/schedule/event/walking_stack_without_frame_pointers/)
  - Continue [BPF Technical Roadmap - Google Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1bsGgk_bxuhHxCxc_UXxEa62R-prAX0eNpwkT19_OeFY/edit#slide=id.g14930a8517c_0_0): Windows portion [Dave]
