## Meeting #50 - 2024-05-02

- **Duration:** 20 min
- **Chair: Andrii Nakryiko**
- **Participants:**
  - Joe Stringer
  - Brendan Gregg
  - Alan Jowett
  - Dan Brown
  - Andrii Nakryiko
- **Notes:**
  - Joe to give BSC presentation at LSFMMBPF2024

## Meeting #49 - 2024-03-06

- **Duration:** 24m
- **Chair:** KP Singh
- **Participants:**
  - Joe Stringer
  - Brendan Gregg
  - KP Singh
  - Alan Jowett
- **Notes:**
  - No quorum
  - Discussion on using temporary files as part of bpftrace/BCC
  - Dan: FYI the charter amendment vote has passed.
    - Next session with quorum we can do a vote for new members
  - Dan: Sponsorships
    - LSFMM signed: Two passes available.
    - Plumbers signed: 5 in-person / 15 virtual passes available.
    - Contact Dan for more info on passes.
    - Kernel Recipes: Pending.
    - Kubecon NA co-location: Awaiting event organizers

## Meeting #48 - 2023-02-21

- **Duration**: 48m
- **Chair**: Joe
- **Participants**:
  - Dan Brown
  - Alan Jowett
  - Joe Stringer
  - Alexei Starovoitov
  - Brendan Gregg
- **Notes**:
  - No quorum
  - Charter Amendment
    - <https://github.com/joestringer/bsc/compare/charter-2023...joestringer:bsc:charter-proposal-20240214?expand=1>
    - No obvious deviations from previous discussions.
  - Events to focus on - marketing committee expected to approve the list provided by BSC.
  - Considering security whitepaper, Brendan / KP for subject matter expertise and whether to find professional writers to work towards this.
    - Brendan feedback on State of eBPF report: Grammar can come at the expense of technical accuracy.
    - Brendan: Question about format. Would a 1-pager be useful enough to outline key messages, advice from experts.
    - eBPF is your security friend, not your enemy :)
    - Action Item (Brendan, KP) to work on draft text.
    - Drafting high level topics to cover in the whitepaper. Brendan has a list now.

## Meeting #47 - 2024-01-24

- **Duration:**
- **Chair: Brendan Gregg**
- **Participants:**
  - Joe Stringer
  - Sridhar Rao
  - Alexei Starovoitov
  - Brendan Gregg
  - KP Singh
  - Alan Jowett
  - Andrii Nakryiko
  - Daniel Borkmann
- **Notes:**
  - 2023 year in review
    - Public: <https://ebpf.foundation/bpf-steering-committee-year-in-review/>
    - Feedback from BSC: Can we find it from the website somewhere?
    - AI(SR): Discuss with Dan where it should be linked in the website
      - For example under: <https://ebpf.foundation/bsc/>
  - 2024 goals
    - Technical success in SOWs
    - Better prepare/develop foundation tasks (BSC & GB) before encouraging more members to join the foundation, so when they do join it is a better and more valuable experience
      - Finish BSC task list (in these meeting notes way below)
      - GB task list?
    - Fruitful collaboration between BSC / GB
    - Outreach. Engage with companies using BPF to understand how they are using it and pain points.
      - Small blocker: Intel legal draft (almost done)
    - "Humble goals"
  - Alan: What is the difference between the BSC vs. IETF BPF working group?
    - IETF around standardization
    - BSC: What are pain points in the community, how can we help fund marketing and technical achievements in those areas.
    - BSC: Provide a stable basis that can be used in order to innovate on top.
  - Update: Brendan has draft legal disclaimer for meetings, almost done he hopes.
  - Proposal/SOW drafts for external contractor work (e.g. collabora, Linaro, et al) to recommend funding to the GB \[Daniel\]:
    - SR: prioritize SOWs
      - P1 High priority, P2 medium, P3 low.
    - **BPF kernel CI improvements \[P1\]:** [**https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HYkbDTBDMhuOuSeMaFT4RqrMTIUKWp04XvJTLyck6v4/edit**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HYkbDTBDMhuOuSeMaFT4RqrMTIUKWp04XvJTLyck6v4/edit)
      - Daniel: Happy to help
    - **BPF CI local vmtest.sh runner \[P2\]:** [**https://docs.google.com/document/d/1U_NJ8axXtD_4kLrUiBF9mqauLO8IM7pZI30ItJyIgeI/edit**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1U_NJ8axXtD_4kLrUiBF9mqauLO8IM7pZI30ItJyIgeI/edit)
      - KP: Happy to help
      - Discussion about just using CI for testing rather than local.
      - Andrii: Maybe rescope this to setting up a full development environment.
      - Alexei: This could actually help with subsequent contracting.
      - AI(Daniel): Rewrite \[done\]
    - **LLVM BPF backend improvements \[P1/P2\]:** [**https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SY-hlMvqQeA-kH35YFqTgPwtAdz2qdOpF6DZdZHLWf0/edit**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SY-hlMvqQeA-kH35YFqTgPwtAdz2qdOpF6DZdZHLWf0/edit)
      - Alexei: Happy to help
      - Alan: Also interested, to better support PREVAIL.
      - Discussed on the doc and added feedback comments.
    - **BPF on arm64 improvements \[P1\]:** [**https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GI0rVbdryz6z8GA0E2PGV6KlmHXvIoMev36RmaHTCJ8/edit**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GI0rVbdryz6z8GA0E2PGV6KlmHXvIoMev36RmaHTCJ8/edit)
      - KP: Florent can help
      - Impact: Issues with BPF on ARM in clouds, Android.
      - Difficult to prioritize between each task, they are all very similar priority
    - **BPF on riscv improvements \[P3\]:** [**https://docs.google.com/document/d/17hLWYBM2AmpcKbgcvWirGQtIJiL8ELB195IfQd8lMQQ/edit**](https://docs.google.com/document/d/17hLWYBM2AmpcKbgcvWirGQtIJiL8ELB195IfQd8lMQQ/edit)
      - Daniel: Bjorn Topel could help
      - Not yet drafted \[done\]
      - Step 1: Enable in CI, form denylist
    - Alexei: The above are targeted towards contractors. For this to be successful, we will need to provide some guidance.
      - Practical steps: Who will find contractors?
    - KP: We are happy to put SOWs in any format that the board is looking for.
    - Sridhar: Start with what we have so far. Any contractors/vendors we work with may have further questions and we can clarify at that point.
    - Alexei: It's important to use Foundation funding in responsible ways, SOWs should be well time bounded and they appear to be formatted that way.
    - KP: Starting somewhere with one project would help to start and understand the process, commitments, etc.
    - Brendan: How do we ensure minimum expectations/requirements for contractors
      - Coding in C
      - Linux upstream experience
    - LF can begin finding vendors/contractors (see above requirements).
    - SR: Context around 2024 budget.
    - AI(SR): Start estimating the cost for contractors, prepare for GB Feb 13 meeting.

## Meeting #46 - 2024-01-10

- **Duration:**
- **Chair: Andrii Nakryiko**
- **Participants:**
  - Dan Brown
  - Joe Stringer
  - Brendan Gregg
  - Daniel Borkmann
  - KP Singh
  - Alexei Starovoitov
  - Andrii Nakryiko
- **Notes:**
  - Update from GB meeting: No quorum. KP was late, but it was already finished.
  - KP: Discussing with April about a potential GB+BSC summit.
    - Blocker: Legal notice for meeting. Brendan to follow up afresh now.
    - Draft by Brendan from memory (do not use):
      - "This is a public meeting to discuss open source technologies only. Please do not share anything confidential (for example, your company's roadmap or future plans).
      - Be aware that your competitors may be present in the meeting.
      - Be aware that anything you share may be adopted and sold by others."
  - Daniel to ask Sridhar to get all members of BSC onto invite for GB meetings
  - BSC Year in Review [doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P52ALNYPpYzWh0Zepj9vu43UW_kK7hVvqYiw0DKoY3Q/) review/discussion
    - Emphasize travel sponsorship more
    - Where to publish? eBPF foundation site, probably.
    - Retrospective discussion
    - Everyone to review and comment within a week, then publish
  - Conferences
    - FOSDEM Feb 3-4, who will go?
      - Joe
    - IETF March 15-22
      - Alexei considering to attend
    - Kubecon EU, March 19-22
      - eBPF Security talk waitlisted for Cilium & eBPF day
    - LSFMMBPF, Salt Lake City, May
    - LPC ~Sept, Vienna, Austria
      - Overlaps with kernel recipes, GCC
      - Expected around Open Source Summit EU, Sept 16-18
